We have previously talked about deleting models but we haven't handled the case where our model has
some relations and since we have written a quite complicated database cedar even vote there is no functionality
yet in our application to add comments we can add some comments using our seeder.
So make sure you see the database right now by running P2P artisan DB seed refreshing the database by
typing yes and then just use defaults to make sure you have some blog posts and comments.
So now on our application we can try to log in as John Lara Val dot test because that's one of the users
that we are creating using the cedar and the password is secret.
If you do not remember.
Now let's go to the blog posts list and let's take a look at some of the blog posts that have comments
like those two.
So let's see what happens when we print press delete.
So actually it doesn't get deleted and we got obscure error that the integrity constraint violation
has happened.
And it says that we cannot delete or update our parent role because our foreign key constraint fails.
So what that means is that on our table on comments we have our foreign key on the blog post I.D..
So when you tried to remove our blog post then this constraint will fail because there will be some
comments in your database that still reference this idea of this party crowd blog post.
And it's not allowed if you have foreign keys.
So how can we solve that in Murrysville.
So in this lecture I will show you the first way to solve it.
So the first way we can solve it is using model events.
So Model Events are being dispatched by a lot of.
When something happens to a model so you can now take a look at this part of the larval documentation
about eloquent events link is included.
And it says that a lot of those models have some life cycle events that are being dispatched when something
happens.
So those are the possible events.
But what will interest us at this point is the deleting event.
We'll get to the events later and explain it a little bit more with much more usage examples.
But for now it's enough for us to know that we can subscribe to the deleting event.
It happens just before the blog post model or any other model is actually being deleted from the database.
Now the simplest way you can subscribe to this event is inside the model itself.
On the model itself you can define a static method called boot.
It will be outsmarted CLI cold by Lara.
Also you don't have to worry about it only think you'll have to do here is called the Parent boot method
because it is actually implemented inside the base model class so don't forget to do that.
Other than that it's pretty simple.
We can use static deleting and here will specify a callback.
So whatever has to happen when a model is being deleted.
But just before it is deleted.
So you have to put a closure here.
And as an argument you will get an instance of the current model we can't even type painted with the
blog post class
and basically that's it.
This would always be called when the model is being deleted.
We can verify that by using D.D..
Now let's go back to our blog post list.
Press delete and you can see the message.
I was deleted.
Now this model actually wasn't deleted because we stopped before it was.
So now we know that the blog post has comments.
And when we access it as a function as a method not as a field because the field will fetch our least
of all the comments but now we have some additional capabilities and this object returned by by the
comments method on the blog post or any other model with our relation has our delete method.
So what this does it it will delete all the related models from this particular model in this case it
will delete all the comments from the database.
So this will let us pass through this foreign key constraint and every related model will be deleted
along the blog post.
So let's save the changes and now try deleting one of the blog posts that actually have some comments
so we can see everything works perfectly we can delete all the blog posts thanks to this event that
we handle and delete all the comments in the next lecture you will see another way of handling deleting
of their related models from our particular model.